Here’s an overview of the whole system. The system is composed of (3) separate parts: the Raspberry Pi Zero WH (RBPZ) and its accelerometer, an Android cell phone, and the AI system that queries the human user for gestures.

The RBPZ continuously queries an accelerometer of gyroscope and acceleration data using a python program; how it moves in the user’s hand (and eventually a single finger ring). This data is streamed with a timestamp to the Android phone over a bluetooth connection.

The Android Java program first creates a bluetooth connection server, so technically it neesd to be running before the python program. Once the bluetooth connection is made the Android program starts reading the JSON data from the RBPZ and storing it in a small Sqlite database. Currently, every 100 sensor readings the Android receives, it creates a file and uploads it to pastebin, just to offload captured data. 

The third part of this system that is not yet connected will be ECO. The plan is to have ECO initiate a gesture retrieval by speaking to the user with something like “Dude, raise your finger”. At the same time ECO will make a web service call to the Android program and request a stream of sensor readings. After some predetermined time ECO closes the stream and analyzes the data for a match to other recorded gestures from this user. Each user will need to be trained to consistently record several gestures which are stored in a library. During a training session ECO will ask the user to perform the gesture while it records it. If the user is able to record enough gestures that match within a set of tolerances, then a library of the gestures is made available for future match comparisons. Once ECO is confident that a user has mastered a set of gestures then it can train the user to use the gesture to respond to higher level queries, such as “Are you able to talk right now?” where the user has been trained to simply raise the finger in response to say “Yes”, or they could lower their finger to say “No”, and possibly wiggle their finger to say “Maybe, if it’s important enough”.
